# 2018-08-20

* Programming is like swimming
* Keep programming or you'll forget
	* Like excercise/sports
* Like swimming: start flailing, then learn
  by swimming; can't learn just from reading.

* Going to learn Computer Science
* Why we do certain stuff? To do better at it.

* Look through chapter 1.
* Can start chapter 2, but probably next week.

## Overview

* Tooling
* Language review
* Data structures (how data is stored and manipulated)
  & algorithms (instructions to modify data, etc).
* Make an array, stack, queue! Compare to existing structures.
  Non-linear data structures.
* Web! Use & create. Super vague!
  * Use! How could I pull info off a recipe website (etc)?
  * Create! Use Flask to create a website.
* Machine learning! OooOooOoh.
  * Programs "look" and compares to existing photos to determine
    if photo is appropriate; if unsure, sends to person. Greatly
    speeds up stuff.
  * How to train a computer to do stuff.

* Going to move fairly fast.

* Final assignment: a group project! (...ooooh boy.)

* How can we use the things we've already learned
  to solve new problems?
* Don't want to re-invent after, but should build a wheel
  to know how it works.

* Tries to be tool agnostic; what that means is a forms based
  program would use C#, because it's easier than in Python. Instead
  for mobile, use Java if targetting Android. Etc.

* Anaconda IDE. (PyCharm instead!)
* Stick with Python 3.6 for now.
* Anaconda and IDLE can co-exist.
* Will use IDLE at the beginning.

* `help` gives documentation
  * uses `docstrings`!
* `future` only works on 2.7

* When comments and code are wrong, either one could
  be wrong.
* Comments should not be what you're doing, they should explain
  why.
* Writer smarter comments! They shouldn't say what you're
  code is literally doing.

```py
# NC retirement age
R = 65

# ...and if they change the retirement age, the comment is informative.
```

## Assignments
* Discussion board ice breaker.
  * Come up with solution to river puzzle in group.

## Before next class...
1. Install Anaconda
2. Do Discussion Board