# Notes 2018-09-05

* Module 2!
* AGILE: kinda like `import this`
* Create CodeWars account
	* Used later in class
	* Don't be scared! Some people have had accounts for a while
	* Mr. Norris likes to do problems in multiple languages
* Study stuff from MIT
	* Students didn't like it, so switched to textbook
* Lambert chapter 1...
	* Loop until you get good input!

* Anaconda prompt
	* Run Jupyter from command prompt
	* (base) signals Python virtual env (venv)
	* In this case it shows Anaconda venv
	* `pip list` shows Python packages
	* `pip` is like `apt` but for Python packages
		* ...aside: except when OS package managers want to manage that too
		            (looking at you, FreeBSD).

```
(base) C:\ > E:\
(base) C:\ > jupyter
```

* By launching jupyter, root directory is whatever
  at current directory.

* Going to use Spyder today...
  * ...aside: I don't like Spyder because I'm a hipster.


* Recommends Python 3.6.x+
	* I think I wrote that down.

## Spyder
* Grab file on strings
* Grab PDF

* Ctrl + 1 toggles code commented on selection

* listy[-1] is last item in listlike object, listy[-n] is nth element from end of list
* listy[from:to] slices `from` through `to`, where `to` is mutually exclusive

```
list = [1, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5]
slice = list[1:3]
print(slice) # [1, 2]
slice = list[1:4]
print(slice) # [1, 2, 3]
```

* Pythonic way! Don't iterate over strings with loops.
* Do `for c in s` to iterate over each character in string instead.

* `if c in c` returns true if element `c` is in container `s`
* `if 'c' in 'cat'` is true
* `if 'f' in 'cat'` is false

* bag collection: can be in bag, but has no index
* like set

### String Reminder
* Generic functions like `len` are same for lists
  as tuples, lists, etc.

* strings are immutable
* creating new strings hurts memory (garbage collector)

* `==` vs `equals`
	* `s1 (@ 0x1234)` -> `hello`
	* `s2 (@ 0x1234)` -> `hello`
	* Is content same, or reference same?
	* Python interns small strings (small is implementation detail)
	* Probably won't be on quiz... probably...

### Parameters
```
def main(contents): # `contents` is a formal parameter
	print(contents)
```

```
name = input("Whats your name?????????? ")
main("Hello, " + name) # Argument (actual parameters)
```

* Formal parameters show what we're using the functions for
* Actual parameters show how we're using the function

```
main(contents="Hello") # Using parameter explicitly
```

* Can use default arguments to formal parameter to make optional

```
def sos(ship="Titanic"):
	print("SOS from", ship)

sos()                       # "SOS from Titanic"
sos(ship="Amelia Earheart") # "SOS from Amelia Earheart"
sos("Enterprise")           # "SOS from Enterprise"
```

### Return values / tuples

* If no `return` statement is in function,
  function returns `None`

* Can return multiple values via tuples

```
def drawPoint(point):
	# point is tuple with (x, y)

# is better than

def drawPoint(x, y):
	# ...
```

* Multiple return values allows returning error & object
	* Use exceptions instead if error

### Woaaaaaaaaaaah

* Everything is an object, even functions.
* You can pass functions to functions and return functions.
	* Flask decorators!

### Tampered
* Sending package with modification
  I have a key, you have a key, but we can't exchange them

  `key = prime1 * prime2` (where `key` is the public key)
  by dividing `key` by `prime1` or `prime2` we can decode the number

Because calculating primes is computationally expensive,
it's hard to impossible to bruteforce.

Some math problems are easy to do, but hard to undo.
Also know as NP (bruteforce) or P (fast)... in a nutshell

